[Music]
welcome to b2b marketing and more with
your host Pam dinner as leading
marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
Pam created this podcast to share our
professional experience and insights and
help you to be a great b2b marketer you
enjoy the podcast please share it with
your colleagues and leave a review on
iTunes now let's get started another big
hello from Portland Oregon I hope
everybody is doing very well
I want to share a story or you know what
a case study with you
Cindy is a newly promoted vp of
marketing for a manufacturing company
she knows how to get things done
that's why she's very very good at but
she tends to get deep into the weeds and
that's because for a long time her job
was about getting things done you can
give her any marketing tactics and she
would find a way to implement them
that's why she got promoted because
she's very very good now she's a newly
minted VP of Marketing she is unable to
pour herself out of that technical level
and instead focus on structuring a
high-level productive conversation or
budget discussion with her manager who
is the VP of Sales
so she purchased a 10 hour consultation
package from me and asked me to work
with her to create a plan to get more
budget I'd love it Cindy you are my girl
you know I'm gonna help you out her
company's revenue it's a little over 200
million dollars but her budget is
substantially less than 1% of the total
revenue and her team is small she feels
that she can do so much more for sales
in her company and I 100% agree with her
if she has more budget and she's right
so the first thing she sent me was her
budget file with a laundry list of
market expenses okay Cindy that's not
the first thing I want to see the first
things I really want to see was her
marketing plan and of course is a big
deck but I used you know her input and
information to create kind of like one a
summary slot
and this is kind of like a simple
one-page marketing plan to look like to
drive a 20/20 plane discussion so I'm
gonna really kind of like a five
categories with you on that slide I have
business gold business objective
marketing objective marketing strategy
and KPI which is key performance
indicators right the business go is easy
you know achieve say two hundred twenty
million dollars in 2020 right the
business objective obviously they want
to grow the existing business and they
want to tackle a couple of new business
segments right so I asked her about the
projected revenue breakdowns between the
new existing segments and we write a
statement about the business objective
the marketing objective is really about
build brand awareness and drive demand
for both new and existing segments so
that's a little bit generic everybody
can say that however the marketing
strategy it's more tailored for the
company and they are three the number
one is thought leadership
number two is brain awareness number
three is dimension okay which is also
very typical but the statement that she
wrote is specifically for her company
thought leadership the statement is
position the company's thought
leadership by showcasing subject matter
experts technical know-how and expertise
alright number two build the brain
awareness by encouraging opt-in and
engagement with high-level project
managers and early career professionals
in their target industries so they
specified the persona number three
deliver solid and cue elves which is
marketing qualified leads to sales via
email inquiries and the contact is form
on the company website okay so it's very
action driven and QL or demand Jim
that's good all three of them are very
solid then the next one is KPI
we make sure that a KPI also match with
the marketing strategies on a strategy
we have thought leadership we have
building brain awareness we have driving
dimension right so the KPI match that
the number one KPI the first KPI is a
number of content pieces creative or
Alban communication and thought
leadership so we categorize all the
content into kind of like a thought
leadership category
the number two is about Bill brain
awareness our KPI is the target audience
update which is subscribers and number
three is about dimensions and obviously
it's a number of and QL is based on the
email enquiries and contact it's form so
that is the first lie is also an
executive summary that will get the VP
of Sales
oriented before we get into the 20/20
budget discussion so after going through
that whole discussion and created that
executive summary I also suggested
adding one new initiative and your
marketing strategy enable sales via
account based marketing so the three
marketing strategies are kind of like
status quo well for 2020 that's mixed
that up adding something new to go with
that we also added one more KPI which is
marketing's contribution to sales which
is you know if you are doing ABN we need
to be able to measure that and then the
next things I ask her to do is
categorize her budget and marketing
expenses based on thought leadership
brain awareness and dimension voila now
you don't have a laundry list of
marketing expenses to show the VP of
Sales you categorize it at a very high
level and in the three categories that
align with your marketing strategy and
also make it easy to drive the
conversation with the VP of Sales does
that make sense the next things that we
did is calculating the cost per
acquisition and then use that to project
the 2020 budget so let me share an
example with you and let's just go ahead
and use the brain awareness and as an
example now she has the marketing
expenses for brain awareness because she
categorize it you know her marketing
expenses giving that brain awareness is
measured by subscriber which is I talked
about that earlier she can take the
total marketing dollar on the brain
awareness divided by the incremental
opt-in subscriber to calculate the cost
per acquisition for opting now she had a
number which is the cost per acquisition
per subscriber right and four dimensions
same thing she has a total dollars that
she spent for 2019 she can take the
total dollars divided by the nql to
calculate the cost per acquisition
/ marketing qualified lee now for 2020
she just need to set up a new goals for
subscribers and nql and then using that
new gold she can multiply the cost per
acquisition which is we just calculate
with the new goals
voila you come up with two numbers right
you come up with to 2020 budget request
numbers but these two numbers I want to
make sure everybody understands it's
just a baseline right you need to now
take into account of our elements to
make adjustment to these two numbers so
don't take this numbers as it is for
example she wants to use pay search as a
channel to drive the main gem fantastic
then the cost per acquisition will go up
if we are gonna do a pay media effort
because pay search is a pay media effort
right so you'll cost pack positions will
go up therefore you need to look at new
to cost per acquisition number to do the
the calculation one more time I also
told Cindy that her current cost per
acquisition for dimension is way too low
because she does everything organically
and that's also one of the reasons and
she's not meeting the current goal on
top of that I suggested to Cindy to add
sales enablement such as account based
marketing as a new initiative to support
the sales team using a new initiative to
ask for additional budget is a great
tactic the VP of Sales may not be
interested in budget increase but he is
certainly well lean to entertain a
discussion with Cindy about ABM to
support a sales team because it's really
about supporting sales he's not gonna
say no like right away so we went back
and forth about budget projections we
make sure that each budget item was
calculated with proper assumptions and
cost per acquisition Cindy also makes
sure that she has some industry
benchmark data to support her claims and
I wanted to present agree with that so
we end up creating four slides the first
lie was the executive summary I talked
about which is an overall marketing plan
and the KPIs the second slide was a
status update is really it was about
2019 and KPI status the
first lie was really about the projected
2020 budget by key categories the first
lie was about the campus marketing to
use one slide to drive the discussion
with the VP of Sales each one was
supported with the table to show how we
came up with our budget and the key
assumptions right so we want to make
sure we can answer any potential
questions from VP of Sales I also
practice in these what to say and how to
position the plan overall the budget
meeting went well the VP of Sales has
several questions for Cindy to follow up
we didn't get all the budget we asked
for but she received a budget increase
to try a search and account based
marketing yay I understand every
company's planning a budget allocation
process is different some of them are
very complicated especially in global
enterprises but if you need someone to
brainstorm read or give feedback and
revise on your plans please schedule a
call with me um Pam dinner calm I love
to help you out thank you so much for
tuning in to b2b marketing and more with
p.m. I hope you are working on your 2020
plan and asking for additional budget
wish you best a blog to get a budget you
need or 2020 have an awesome day
take care if you enjoyed this podcast
please share it with your colleagues and
we review on iTunes
[Music]
you